# jspsych-output
A short description about the output of jsPsych

## Introduction

Scientist like to explore the output of the experiment they make. The Uil OTS
labs have chosen for jsPsych to run there online experiments. It comes with it's
internal "database" for the research data that is collected during one run of
the experiment. This is a small introduction in the output collected by
jsPsych.

Unfortunately, jsPsych is rather verbose in its output. And everything
presented is treated as a single trial, this often means, the fixation cross
that starts your trial is - in the output of jsPsych - a trial of its own. This
is how jsPsych works internally and this is what we will have to deal with.

This document tries to explain where you can find the relevant documentation in
the jsPsych documentation to understand the output that is generated by your
experiment. We provide the relevant links and a little guidance in order to
understand the output.

## jsPsych general trial information
Each jsPsych trial is started via a jsPsych plugin. All plugins will display the
following variables to the output, these 4 variables are:

1. **trial_type**
2. **trial_index**
3. **time_elapsed**
4. **internal_node_id**

Information can be obtained from [data-collected-from-plugins][1] section in the
jsPsych documentation. The most significant variable is the first, **trial_type**
because that determines where you can look for meaning of the other variables of
the same jsPsych trial. For example in a visual lexical decision with visual
prime. A trials starts with a fixation cross, then a prime and then a (non-)word
again. In terms of jsPscych those are 3 trials. the cross, the prime and the
(non-)word. They are all presented with the same plugin called:
*html-keyboard-response*. In order to see the meaning of the other variables
you'll have to look up the plugin of that trial in the [list of plugins][2]. All
the plugins are prefixed with "jspsych-", so you'll be looking for the plugin:
*jspsych-html-keyboard-response*. Once you have found it, you need to
look for the paragraph *Data Generated*. In the panel on the right hand side
of the web page you can find a link to the section.
There are 3 variables listed.

1. **key_press**
2. **rt**
3. **stimulus**

So for the html-keyboard-response-plugin, in addition 4 variables above, the
**key_press**, **rt** and **stimulus** are stored in the output. As you can see,
the type and meaning of the variable are also listed in the table.

## Data added by the boilerplates of the Uil OTS labs
Scripts using jsPsych can add some own data to each trial. The UiL OTS
boilerplate experiments also add some variables in the hope they are useful for
analyzing the result of the experiment.

In addition to the 7 variables (in the case of the html-keyboard-response) above
the boilerplate experiments of the UiL OTS labs add two additional
variables to each trial. This is done for example by:

```javascript
jsPsych.data.addProperties (
    {
        subject : subject_id,
        list : list_name
    }
);
```
The two variables added by the experiment script are:

1. **subject** A random id generated when the experiment starts.
2. **list** The chosen list from the available lists in the experiment.

## Experiment specific variables

Different experiments need different output. The UiL OTS Self Paced Reading
(SPR) boilerplate  for example records up to 15 reaction times per trial.
15 reaction times per trials, whereas the lexical decision only record one.
You'll have to look this up in the documentation of each boilerplate.

[1]:<https://www.jspsych.org/plugins/overview/#data-collected-by-plugins>
[2]:<https://www.jspsych.org/plugins/overview/#list-of-available-plugins>

